
It has been recently reported that around 40% of Internet users play some form of an online game (http://www.develop-online.net/news/36618/40-of-all-internet-users-play-online-games). Among the games, Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Games (MMORPGs for short), perhaps the most sophisticated and complex, are known to be enjoyed by a dedicated base composed of no less than 20 million people worldwid (http://www.brighthub.com/video-games/mmo/articles/35992.aspx). An MMOPRG typically features a real world-like arena set in a fantastical age in which gamers engage in a variety of interactions with other players through battles and commerce (e.g., exchange or sales of valuable items), or purely recreational activities. The existence of a large dedicated fan base is attributed to the engrossing and persistent nature of MMORPGs, the players being able to groom their characters over a time span of many months or years. (Korean Paper...)


Playing computer games has become a social experience. Hundreds of thousands of players interact in massively multiplayer online games (MMORPG), a recent and successful genre descending from the pioneering multi-user dungeons (MUDs). These new games are purposefully designed to encourage interactions among players, but little is known about the nature and structure of these interactions. In this paper, we analyze player-to-player interactions in two locations in the game Star Wars Galaxies. We outline different patterns of interactivity, and discuss how they are affected by the structure of the game. We conclude with a series of recommendations for the design and support of social activities within multiplayer games. (The social side of gaming: a study of interaction patterns in a massively multiplayer online game)

